
187. What are resource allocation, congestion control, and flow control?
-Congestion control is responding to overutilized buffers and bandwidth at any point in a network. 
-Resource allocation attempts to account for fairness.
-Flow control: congestion control between single sender-receiver.


188. How does congestion control differ from weighted-link routing?
Congestion control addresses bottleneck routers, congestion points that cannot be routed around.


189. What is a flow?
Sequence of packets sent between a source/destination pair following the same route through the network.


190. What is each router responsible for in a router-centric design?
1.Deciding when packets are forwarded
2.Deciding which packets are dropped
3.Informing hosts how many packets allowed to send


191. What is a host-centric design?
Hosts observe network conditions (# packets sent through) and adjust accordingly.


192. Explain reservation-based vs feedback-based system:
-reservation-based: Host requests each router to allocate buffers/bandwidth for flow.
-feedback-based: explicit (router messages) or implicit (dropped packets) feedback is used by host to adjust sending rate.


193. Explain window-based vs rate-based resource allocation:
-window-based: Receiver sends window advertisements for  reserve buffer space.
-rate-based: Sender reserves bps, routers determine if can support.


194. What are the 2 main service models?
-Best-effort: Host-Centric, Feedback, window-based
-QoS: Router-Centric, Reservation, Bandwidth/Rate-based


195. What are the 2 principle metrics of networking? How Related?
-Throughput and delay.
-Maximizing throughput requires larger queues, more delay.


196. How is “power” used?
Throughput / delay vs. load curve is optimized. At least, control load to prevent thrashing/congestion collapse, so system is “stable”.


197. Describe queueing disciplines:
-FIFO
-Priority queue: can starve lower priorities
-Fair queuing: round-robins packets by flow


198. Explain bit-by-bit round robin in fair queuing:
Because packets vary in size, lowest finishing time of the last packet in each queue is used to determine which is sent. Packets already being transmitted are not preempted.
199. What is the maximum segment size for TCP?
1 packet
200. What is additive increase / multiplicative decrease?
-Each timeout causes congestion window to halve until it is 1 MSS (1 packet).
-Each successful congestion window sent, it is increased by 1.


201. Why is it beneficial to aggressively reduce congestion window and gradually increase?
The consequences of having too large a congestion window are worse. With congestion, failed packets will trigger retransmission, making the problem worse.


202. What are the 2 scenarios where slow start is used?
1.beginning of connection
2.dropped packet causes blocked send buffer, cumulative ack basically restarts send window.


203. What are 2 congestion avoidance approaches?
1.Active Queue Management (AQM): router assists end node
2.end host avoidance (TCP uses)


204. What are 2 classic mechanisms of AQM?
1.DECbit: routers notify nodes of congested load by setting DECbit in forwarded packet header. Destination copies the bit into its ACK for the source. Source uses “increase by 1, decrease to .875”.
2.Random Early Detection (RED): Designed for TCP, using timeouts. Implicitly notifies source by dropping packets (Before buffer is actually full, to prevent more drops later). Early random drop: “drop each arriving packet with some drop probability whenever the queue length exceeds some drop level.”


205. How does source-based congestion avoidance work? What are 2 methods?
Source uses increase in RTT to detect router queue build-up.
1.decrease congestion window by ⅛ every time rtt is above average (checks every 2 rtts)
2.window size oscillates around optimal point, +1 max packet size or -⅛. Decides using (CurrentWindow − OldWindow)×(CurrentRTT − OldRTT).


206. What is playback point?
Guaranteed max delay for real-time data transfer, allowing control over drop rate of buffered data.


207. What are 2 classes of real-time applications?
1.delay adaptive: Playback point can be adjusted (voice samples can be skipped when shortening buffer).
2.rate adaptive: Bitrate can adapt to network bandwidth (video quality)


208. What are 2 approaches to QoS support?
1.Integrated services, RSVP, (fine-grained)
2.Differentiated services (coarse-grained)
209. What is RSVP/integrated services?
-Service classes: guaranteed service, controlled load service
-Mechanisms: 
Flowspec: TSpec: traffic characteristic, RSpec: requested service, token bucket filter
admission control: admits/denies service based on TSpec and RSpec
resource reservation: Associate packets with reservation, used to communicate admission control
Scheduling: packet management with queues


210. What is differentiated services?
-Allocates to classes of traffic instead of separate flows
-bit determines priority, ISP assigns based on payment tier
-Expedited forwarding: without congestion, minimize delay/loss of high priority
-assured forwarding: RED/RIO drop probability